Release v1.0.0 (#2)
mattermost/mattermost-app-opsgenie: README.md

# Opsgenie App
# Mattermost/OpsGenie Integration

> A Opsgenie app for Mattermost.

Reviewer: Is it OpsGenie or Opsgenie? Please capitalize all product-specific references consistently across all app documentation.

>     * [Installation HTTP](#installation-http)

Reviewer: Please update this table of contents with the updated section titles suggested below.

    * [Installation Mattermost Cloud](#installation-mattermost-cloud)
    * [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Admin guide](#admin-guide)
    * [Slash commands](#slash-commands)
* [End user guide](#end-user-guide)
    * [Get started](#get-started)
    * [Use /opsgenie commands](#use-genie-commands)
* [Development environment](#development-environment)
    * [Manual installation](#manual-installation)
    * [Install dependencies](#install-dependencies)
    * [Run the local development environment](#run-the-local-development-environment)
  * [Run the local development environment with Docker](#run-the-local-development-environment-with-docker)

> This application allows you to integrate OpsGenie to your Mattermost instance, letting you know when a new alert is created, as well as getting notified about alert updates. Also, allows the user to create new alerts, add notes to alerts, close alerts, assign alerts, etc. without moving from the Mattermost window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This application allows you to integrate OpsGenie with your Mattermost instance to notify you of new and updated alerts, as well as allow you to create, manage, and assign new alerts without leaving Mattermost.
```

# Feature summary

> **OpsGenie to Mattermost notifications:** Link your Mattermost channels with the OpsGenie Teams you want to see, so you and your team can get notifications about the creation and updates of each alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**OpsGenie to Mattermost notifications:** Link Mattermost channels with OpsGenie Teams to receive notifications about new and updated alerts.
```

# Set up

> ## Installation HTTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install with HTTP
```

> To install, as a Mattermost system admin user, run the command ``/apps install http OPSGENIE_API`` in any channel. The ``/genie`` command should be available after the configuration has been successfully installed.

Reviewer: Is the ``/genie`` command available after the **configuration** has been installed or the **integration** has been installed? This step appears to be installing the integration rather than configuring it.

Reviewer: Is the ``http`` in ``/apps install http OPSGENIE_API`` correct?

> The ``OPSGENIE_API`` should be replaced with the URL where the OpsGenie API instance is running. Example: ``/apps install http https://myapp.com/manifest.json``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``MANIFEST_URL`` should be replaced with the URL where the this OpsGenie app is running. Example: ``/apps install http https://myapp.com/manifest.json``
```

Reviewer: Is ``http https`` in ``/apps install http https://myapp.com/manifest.json`` correct?

Reviewer 2: Yes, `http` is the install method, and `https` is the protocol to fetch the manifest in this case

> ## Installation Mattermost Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install on Mattermost Cloud
```

> To install, as a Mattermost system admin user, run the command ``/apps install listed genie`` in any channel. The ``/genie`` command should be available after the configuration has been successfully installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install, as a Mattermost system admin user, open the Mattermost Marketplace and select **Install** located next to the OpsGenie app. The ``/genie`` command should be available after the integration has been successfully installed.
```

Reviewer: Is the ``/genie`` command available after the **configuration** has been installed or the **integration** has been installed? This step appears to be installing the integration rather than configuring it.

Reviewer 2: It's available after the app/integration is installed. The sysadmin then uses `/genie configure` to configure the app

> ## Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure your integration
```

> After [installing](#installation)) the app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [installing](#installation) the app:
```

> 1. Open your OpsGenie profile to get your credentials and link to your Mattermost instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open your OpsGenie profile and follow the next steps to retrieve your credentials needed to link to your Mattermost instance.
```

> 2. Select the **Integrations** tab in the **Settings** menu. Then, click on the **Add Integration** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Settings > Integrations** and select **Add Integration**.
```

> 3. Inside the **Add Integration** menu, select the **API** option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Within the **Add Integration** menu, select **API**.
```

> 4. Update the integration name and access. Finish the **API** integration set up clicking the **Save Integration** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Update the integration name and access, and select **Save Integration**.
```

5. Copy the given API Key.
6. Return to Mattermost. 
7. As a Mattermost system admin user, run the ``/genie configure`` command.

> 8. In the configuration modal, enter your API Key.

Reviewer 2: Please add screenshots for these steps

# Admin guide

## Slash commands

- ``/genie configure``: This command will enable all the other commands; it asks the administrator for an API key (which will be used to execute calls to OpsGenie’s API).

# End user guide

## Get started

## Use ``/genie`` commands

- ``/genie help``: This command will show all current commands available for this application.
- ``/genie alert create``: Allow any user to create a new alert.

> - ``/genie alert note``: Adds a note to an existing alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``/genie alert note``: Add a note to an existing alert.
```

> - ``/genie alert close``: Closes an existing alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``/genie alert close``: Close an existing alert.
```

- ``/genie alert ack``: Acknowledge an existing alert.

> - ``/genie alert unack``: UnAcknowledge an existing alert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``/genie alert unack``: Unacknowledge an existing alert.
```

- ``/genie alert snooze``: Snooze an existing alert for a period of time.
- ``/genie alert assign``: Assign an existing to a mattermost team member.
- ``/genie alert own``: Take ownership of an existing alert (assign alert to yourself).
- ``/genie alert priority``: Set the priority of an existing alert.
- ``/genie alert list``: Get a list of the existing alerts.
- ``/genie team list``: Get a list of the existing teams.

> - ``/genie subscription add``: Creates a new subscription for notifications: choose a team and a channel and get notified of the updates in that team. You can subscribe more than one team per channel.

Reviewer 2: We should make sure to differentiate between Mattermost teams and OpsGenie teams

```suggestion
- ``/genie subscription add``: Creates a new subscription for notifications: choose a OpsGenie team and a Mattermost channel and get notified of the updates in that team. You can subscribe more than one team per channel.
```

Reviewer 2: We should use the current channel instead of having the user supply a channel as an argument

> - ``/genie subscription add``: Creates a new subscription for notifications: choose a team and a channel and get notified of the updates in that team. You can subscribe more than one team per channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``/genie subscription add``: Create a new subscription for notifications by choosing a team and a channel. You can subscribe to more than one team per channel.
```

> - ``/genie subscription list``: Show the list of all subscriptions made in all of your channels.

Reviewer 2: By default we should only show subscriptions for the current channel. We can also allow for an `--all` flag accessible for system admins

> - ``/genie subscription remove``: Will allow you to remove a subscription. No more notifications from that team will be received.

Reviewer 2: Can we mention any relevant command arguments here?

> - ``/genie subscription remove``: Will allow you to remove a subscription. No more notifications from that team will be received.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``/genie subscription remove``: Will allow you to remove a subscription. No more notifications from that team will be received in that channel.
```

# Development environment

## Manual installation

> *  Download the latest repository release.

Reviewer: Can we include a link to the repository for easy access?

### Run the local development environment

> * You need to have installed at least node version 15 and maximum version 18. You can download the latest lts version of node for the required operating system here https://nodejs.org/es/download/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You need to have at least Node version 15 and maximum version 18 installed. You can download the latest LTS version of Node for your operating system here: https://nodejs.org/es/download/
```

### Install dependencies
* Move to the project directory or execute ``cd`` command to the project directory and execute ``npm install`` with a terminal to download all dependency libraries.

```
$ npm install
```

*  Update the environment configuration file. The ``.env`` file must be modified or added to set the environment variables, it must be in the root of the repository.

```
file: .env

PROJECT=mattermost-opsgenie-app
PORT=4002
HOST=http://localhost:4002

> ```

Reviewer 2: Can we alternatively use env variables instead of editing `.env`? If so, the README should reflect this

Variable definition

> - PROJECT: In case of executing the project with Docker using the ``.build.sh`` file, this variable will be used for the name of the container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PROJECT: When executing the project with Docker using the ``.build.sh`` file, this variable will be used for the name of the container.
```

> - PORT: Port number on which the OpsGenie integration is listening

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PORT: The port number the OpsGenie integration is listening to.
```

> - HOST: OpsGenie API usage URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- HOST: The OpsGenie API usage URL.
```

> * Finally, the project must be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Finally, the project must be executed by running the following command:
```

```
$ npm run dev
```

> Or, if you would like to use the Makefile command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, you can use the Makefile command:
```

```
$ make watch
```

### Run the local development environment with Docker

* You need to have Docker installed. You can find the necessary steps to install Docker for the following operating systems:

> [Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
```

> [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/install/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/install/)
```

> [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/)
```

> * Once you have Docker installed, the next step would be to run the ``make run-server`` command to create the API container and expose it locally or on the server, depending on the case required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once you have Docker installed, run the ``make run-server`` command to create the API container and expose it locally or on the server, depending on the case required.
```

```

> $ make run-server

Reviewer: This code example isn't needed since it's included in the instructional step above.

```

> When the container is created correctly, the API will be running at the url http://127.0.0.1:4002. If Mattermost is running on the same machine, run this slash command in Mattermost to install the app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the container is created correctly, the API runs at ``http://127.0.0.1:4002``. If Mattermost is running on the same machine, run the following slash command in Mattermost to install the app:
```

```
/apps install http http://127.0.0.1:4002
```

> To stop the container, execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop the container, run the following command:
```
